This repository contains a modified version of xv6, the educational Unix-like operating system, customized for the CSE323 Operating Systems course project.

Overview

This project demonstrates process management, scheduling, and system call enhancements in xv6. The following features were added or modified:

Added Features

meminfo system call

Prints a table of all processes with the following columns:

PID – Process ID

NAME – Process name

MEMORY(bytes) – Size of the process memory

CREATED(ticks) – Tick count when the process was created

STATE – Current state of the process (RUNNABLE, SLEEPING, RUNNING, etc.)

PRIORITY – Current priority of the process

Ensures neat alignment using spaces for readability.

Priority-Based Scheduling

Implemented priority-based round-robin CPU scheduling in proc.c.

Processes are assigned a priority value at creation (default = 2).

Scheduler selects the highest priority runnable process to run next.

Integrates with xv6’s original round-robin mechanism to avoid starvation.

Dynamic Process Priority Adjustment

priority <pid> <new_priority> command lets you modify the priority of any process.

Works in conjunction with the scheduler to demonstrate dynamic behavior.

Demo Programs

dpro – Fork-intensive program to test CPU scheduling.

Other standard xv6 user programs (sh, ls, echo, etc.) included for reference.

Repository Structure
xv6-public/
├── README.md             # This file
├── Makefile
├── proc.c                # Modified scheduler and meminfo
├── sysproc.c             # meminfo syscall
├── user/                 # User programs including meminfo, dpro, priority
├── ...                   # Original xv6 files

How to Build & Run
make clean
make
make qemu


Launch xv6 in QEMU.

Use the shell to run commands like meminfo, dpro, or priority.

Example Usage
$ meminfo
PID   NAME     MEMORY(bytes)  CREATED(ticks)  STATE      PRIORITY
1     init     12288          0               SLEEP      2
2     sh       16384          2               SLEEP      2
3     meminfo  12288          950             RUNNING    2

$ dpro &; dpro &;

$ priority 3 5

$ meminfo
PID   NAME     MEMORY(bytes)  CREATED(ticks)  STATE      PRIORITY
...

Notes

The ticks column is based on the hardware timer interrupts, incremented approximately 100 times per second in the emulated environment.

This version of xv6 is primarily for educational purposes and demonstrates process scheduling, system calls, and basic OS concepts.
